Users and roles: Overviews, cloud org, project custom roles (#340)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/user-roles.md

Reviewer: At the end of the file there's a section about attribute-based access control that ends with:

> For more information, see [Document-level attribute-based access control with X-Pack 6.1](https://www.elastic.co/blog/attribute-based-access-control-with-xpack).

I don't know if linking to such an old blog post is a good idea if we now have a lot of docs about Document Level Security... for example we could link to wherever this page is mapped: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/es-dls-overview.html

Author: that page that you linked is for connectors only. I'll leave this link here for now until we have a better replacement (likely, we need to just pull in some of the info from the blog into the doc - will create an issue)

Author: https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/issues/489

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/authorization.html
applies:
  hosted: all
  ece: all
  eck: all
  stack: all
---

# User roles [authorization]

After a user is authenticated, use role-based access control to determine whether the user behind an incoming request is allowed to execute the request. The primary method of authorization in a cluster is role-based access control (RBAC). Review the following topics to learn about authorization in your Elasticsearch cluster.

### Set up user authorization

* [Define roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/defining-roles.md)
* Learn about [built-in roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/built-in-roles.md)
* Learn about the [Elasticsearch](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/elasticsearch-privileges.md) and [Kibana](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/kibana-privileges.md) privileges you can assign to roles

> * [Map users and groups to roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/mapping-users-groups-to-roles.md)

Reviewer: I would specify that this is only used with external realms, as it's not the assignment of a normal user (native) to roles.

You could call it also `Map external users and groups to roles` if you want to make it clearer.

What I want to avoid is the confusion about that being a generic mapping of user to role, because it's not, it's only for users that don't exist in elasticsearch because they are LDAP, SAML, OIDC, etc...

> * [Map users and groups to roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/mapping-users-groups-to-roles.md)

Author: ```suggestion
* Creating [mappings of users and groups to roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/mapping-users-groups-to-roles.md) for external authentication providers
```

* Learn how to [control access at the document and field level](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/controlling-access-at-document-field-level.md)

### Advanced topics

* Learn how to [delegate authorization to another realm](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/authorization-delegation.md)
* Learn how to [build a custom authorization plugin](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/authorization-plugins.md) for unsupported systems or advanced applications
* Learn how to [submit requests on behalf of other users](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/submitting-requests-on-behalf-of-other-users.md)
* Learn about [attribute-based access control](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/user-roles.md#attributes)

::::{tip}

> User roles are also used to control access to [spaces](/deploy-manage/manage-spaces.md). 

Author: ```suggestion
User roles are also used to control access to [{{kib}} spaces](/deploy-manage/manage-spaces.md). 
```
